=pod

=head1 NAME

HTTP::Simple - Simple procedural interface to HTTP::Tiny

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  perl -MHTTP::Simple -e'getprint(shift)' 'https://example.com'

  use HTTP::Simple;

  my $content = get 'https://example.com';

  if (mirror('https://example.com', '/path/to/file.html') == 304) { ... }

  if (is_success(getprint 'https://example.com')) { ... }

  postform('https://example.com', {foo => ['bar', 'baz']});

  postjson('https://example.com', [{bar => 'baz'}]);

  postfile('https://example.com', '/path/to/file.png');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a wrapper of L<HTTP::Tiny> that provides simplified functions
for performing HTTP requests in a similar manner to L<LWP::Simple>, but with
slightly more useful error handling. For full control of the request process
and response handling, use L<HTTP::Tiny> directly.

L<IO::Socket::SSL> is required for HTTPS requests with L<HTTP::Tiny>.

Request methods that return the body content of the response will return a byte
string suitable for directly printing, but that may need to be
L<decoded|Encode/decode> for text operations.

The L<HTTP::Tiny> object used by these functions to make requests can be
accessed as C<$HTTP::Simple::UA> (for example, to configure the timeout, or
replace it with a compatible object like L<HTTP::Tinyish>).

The JSON encoder used by the JSON functions defaults to a L<JSON::PP> instance,
and can be accessed as C<$HTTP::Simple::JSON>.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

All functions are exported by default. Functions can also be requested
individually or with the tags C<:request>, C<:status>, or C<:all>.

=head2 get

  my $contents = get($url);

Retrieves the document at the given URL with a GET request and returns it as a
byte string. Throws an exception on connection or HTTP errors.

=head2 getjson

  my $data = getjson($url);

Retrieves the JSON document at the given URL with a GET request and decodes it
from JSON to a Perl structure. Throws an exception on connection, HTTP, or JSON
errors.

=head2 head

  my $headers = head($url);

Retrieves the headers at the given URL with a HEAD request and returns them as
a hash reference. Header field names are normalized to lower case, and values
may be an array reference if the header is repeated. Throws an exception on
connection or HTTP errors.

=head2 getprint

  my $status = getprint($url);

Retrieves the document at the given URL with a GET request and prints it as it
is received. Returns the HTTP status code. Throws an exception on connection
errors.

=head2 getstore

  my $status = getstore($url, $path);

Retrieves the document at the given URL with a GET request and stores it to the
given file path. Returns the HTTP status code. Throws an exception on
connection or filesystem errors.

=head2 mirror

  my $status = mirror($url, $path);

Retrieves the document at the given URL with a GET request and mirrors it to
the given file path, using the C<If-Modified-Since> headers to short-circuit if
the file exists and is new enough, and the C<Last-Modified> header to set its
modification time. Returns the HTTP status code. Throws an exception on
connection, HTTP, or filesystem errors.

=head2 postform

  my $contents = postform($url, $form);

Sends a POST request to the given URL with the given hash or array reference of
form data serialized to C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>. Returns the
response body as a byte string. Throws an exception on connection or HTTP
errors.

=head2 postjson

  my $contents = postjson($url, $data);

Sends a POST request to the given URL with the given data structure encoded to
JSON. Returns the response body as a byte string. Throws an exception on
connection, HTTP, or JSON errors.

=head2 postfile

  my $contents = postfile($url, $path);
  my $contents = postfile($url, $path, $content_type);

Sends a POST request to the given URL, streaming the contents of the given
file. The content type is passed as C<application/octet-stream> if not
specified. Returns the response body as a byte string. Throws an exception on
connection, HTTP, or filesystem errors.

=head2 is_info

  my $bool = is_info($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates an informational response (C<1xx>).

=head2 is_success

  my $bool = is_success($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates a successful response (C<2xx>).

=head2 is_redirect

  my $bool = is_redirect($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates a redirection response (C<3xx>).

=head2 is_error

  my $bool = is_error($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates an error response (C<4xx> or C<5xx>).

=head2 is_client_error

  my $bool = is_client_error($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates a client error response (C<4xx>).

=head2 is_server_error

  my $bool = is_server_error($status);

Returns true if the status code indicates a server error response (C<5xx>).

=head1 BUGS

Report any issues on the public bugtracker.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dan Book <dbook@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2019 by Dan Book.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<LWP::Simple>, L<HTTP::Tinyish>, L<ojo>

=cut
